Space Rats of the C.C.C.
Harry Harrison
That’s it, matey, pull up a stool! Sure, use that one. Just dump old Phrnnx
onto the floor to sleep it off. You know that Krddls can’t stand to drink, much
less drink flnnx; and that topped off with a smoke of the hellish krmml
weed. Here, let me pour you a mug of flnnx, oops, sorry about your sleeve.
When it dries you can scrape it off with a knife. Here’s to your health and
may your tubeliners never fail you when the kpnnz hordes are on your tail.
No, sorry, never heard your name before. Too many good men come
and go and the good ones die early, aye! Me? You never heard of me. Just
call me Old Sarge, as good a name as any. Good men, I say, and the best
of them was - well, we’ll call him Gentleman Jax. He had another name, but
there’s a little girl waiting on a planet I could name, a little girl that’s waiting
and watching the shimmering trails of the deep-spacers when they come,
and waiting for a man. So for her sake we’ll call him Gentleman Jax, he
would have liked that, and she would like that if only she knew, although she
must be getting kind of grey, or bald by now, and arthritic from all that sitting
and waiting but, golly, that’s another story and by Orion it’s not for me to tell.
That’s it, help yourself, a large one. Sure, the green fumes are normal for
good flnnx, though you better close your eyes when you drink or you’ll be
blind in a week, ha-ha!, by the sacred name of the Prophet Mrddl!
Yes, I can tell what you’re thinking. What’s an old space rat like me
doing in a dive like this out here at galaxy’s end, where the rim stars flicker
wanly and the tired photons go slow? I’ll tell you what I’m doing, getting
drunker than a Planizzian pfrdffl, that’s what. They say that drink has the
power to dim memories and by Cygnus I have some memories that need
dimming. I see you looking at those scars on my hands. Each one is a story
matey, aye, and the scars on my back each a story and the scars on my ...
well, that’s a different story. Yes, I’ll tell you a story, a true one by Mrddl’s
holy name, though I might change a name or two, that little girl waiting, you
know.
You heard tell of the C.C.C.? I can see by the sudden widening of
your eyes and the blanching of your space-tanned skin that you have. Well
yours truly, Old Sarge here, was one of the first of the Space Rats of the
C.C.C., and my buddy then was the man they know as Gentleman Jax. May
Great Kramddl curse his name and blacken the memory of the first day
when I first set eyes on him ...

* * * *
‘Graduating class ... ten-SHUN!’
The sergeant’s stentorian voice bellowed forth, cracking like a
whiplash across the expectant ears of the mathematically aligned rows of
cadets. With the harsh snap of those fateful words a hundred and three
incredibly polished bootheels crashed together with a single snap and the
eighty-seven cadets of the graduating class snapped to steel-rigid
attention. (It should be explained that some of them were from alien worlds,
and had different numbers of legs, etc.) Not a breath was drawn, not an
eyelid twitched a thousandth of a millilitre as Colonel von Thorax stepped
forward, glaring down at them all through the glass monocle in front of his
glass eye, close-cropped grey hair stiff as barbed wire, black uniform
faultlessly cut and smooth, a krmml weed cigarette clutched in the steel
fingers of his prosthetic left arm, black gloved fingers of his prosthetic right
arm snapping to hatbrim’s edge in a perfect salute, motors whining thinly in
his prosthetic lungs to power the brobdignagian roar of his harshly bellowed
command.
‘At ease. And listen to me. You are the hand-picked men - and
hand-picked things, too, of course - from all the civilized worlds of the
galaxy. Six million and forty-three cadets entered the first year of training
and most of them washed out in one way or another. Some could not toe
the mark. Some were expelled and shot for buggery. Some believed the
lying commy pinko crying liberal claims that continuous war and slaughter is
not necessary and they were expelled, and shot as well. One by one the
weaklings fell away through the years, leaving the hard core of the Corps –
you! The Corpsmen of the first graduating class of the C.C.C! Ready to
spread the benefits of civilization to the stars. Ready at last to find out what
the initials C.C.C. stand for!’
A mighty roar went up from the massed throats, a cheer of hoarse
masculine enthusiasm that echoed and boomed from the stadium walls. At
a signal from von Thorax a switch was thrown and a great shield of
imperviomite slid into place above, sealing the stadium from prying eyes
and ears and snooping spyish rays. The roaring voices roared on
enthusiastically - and many an eardrum was burst that day! - yet were stilled
in an instant when the Colonel raised his hand.
‘You Corpsmen will not be alone when you push the frontiers of
civilization out to the barbaric stars. Oh no! You will each have a faithful
companion by your side. First man, first row - step forward and meet your

faithful companion!’
The Corpsman called out stepped forward a smart pace and clicked
his heels sharply, said click being echoed in the clack of a thrown wide door
and, without conscious intent, every eye in that stadium was drawn in the
direction of the dark doorway from which emerged...
How to describe it? How to describe the whirlwind that batters you,
the storm that engulfs you, the spacewarp that enwraps you? It was as
indescribable as any natural force!
It was a creature three metres high at the shoulders, four metres high
at the ugly, drooling, tooth-clashing head, a whirlwinded, spacewarped
storm that rushed forward on four piston-like legs, great-clawed feet tearing
grooves in the untearable surface of the impervitium flooring, a monster
born of madness and nightmares that reared up before them and bellowed
in a soul-destroying screech.
‘There!’ Colonel von Thorax bellowed in answer, blood-specked
spittle mottling his lips. ‘There is your faithful companion, the mutacamel,
mutation of the noble beast of Good Old Earth, symbol and pride of the
C.C.C. - the Combat Camel Corps! Corpsman meet your camel!’
The selected Corpsman stepped forward and raised his arm in
greeting to this noble beast, which promptly bit the arm off. His shrill
screams mingled with the barely stifled gasps of his companions who
watched with more than casual interest as camel trainers girt with
brass-buckled leather harness rushed out and beat back the protesting
camel with clubs while a medic clamped a tourniquet on the wounded
man’s stump and dragged his limp body away.
‘That is your first lesson on combat camels,’ the Colonel cried huskily.
‘Never raise your arms to them. Your companion with a newly grafted arm
will, I am certain, ha-ha!, remember this little lesson. Next man, next
companion!’
Again the thunder of rushing feet and the high-pitched, gurgling,
scream-like roar of the combat camel at full charge. This time the
Corpsman kept his arm down and the camel bit his head off.
‘Can’t graft on a head, I’m afraid,’ the Colonel leered maliciously at
them. ‘A moment of silence for our departed companion who has gone to
the big rocket pad in the sky. That’s enough. Ten-SHUN! You will now
proceed to the camel training area where you will learn to get along with

your faithful companions. Never forgetting that they each have a complete
set of false teeth made of imperviomite, as well as razor sharp claw caps of
this same substance. Dis-MISSED!’
The student barracks of the C.C.C. was well known for its ‘no frills’ or
rather ‘no coddling’ decor and comforts. The beds were impervitium slabs -
no spine-sapping mattresses here! - and the sheets of thin burlap. No
blankets of course, not with the air kept at a healthy four degrees
centigrade. The rest of the comforts matched, so that it was a great
surprise to the graduates to find unaccustomed luxuries awaiting them upon
their return from the ceremonies and training. There was a shade on each
bare-bulbed reading light and a nice soft two centimetre-thick pillow on
every bed. Already they were reaping the benefits of all the years of labour.
Now, among all the students, the top student by far was named M-----.
There are some secrets that must not be told, names that are important to
loved ones and neighbours, therefore I shall draw the cloak of anonymity
over the true identity of the man known as M-----. Suffice to call him ‘Steel’,
for that was the nickname of someone who knew him best. ‘Steel’, or Steel
as we can call him, had at this time a roommate by the name of L-----. Later,
much later, L----- was to be called by certain people ‘Gentleman Jax’, so for
the purpose of this narrative we shall call him ‘Gentleman Jax’ as well, or
perhaps just plain ‘Jax’, or Jax as some people pronounce it. Jax was
second only to Steel in scholastic and sporting attainments and the two
were the best of chums. They had been roommates for the past year and
now they were back in their room with their feet up, basking in the
unexpected luxury of the new furnishings, sipping decaffinated coffee,
called koffee, and smoking deeply of the school’s own brand of
denicotineized cigarettes, called Denikeig by the manufacturer but always
referred to humorously by the C.C.C. students as ‘gaspers’ or ‘lungbusters’.
‘Throw me over a gasper, will you, Jax,’ Steel said, from where he
lolled on the bed, hands behind his head, dreaming of what was in store for
him now that he would be having his own camel soon. ‘Ouch!’ he chuckled
as the pack of gaspers caught him in the eye. He drew out one of the slim
white forms and tapped it on the wall to ignite it then drew in a lungful of
refreshing smoke. ‘I still can’t believe it . . .’ he smoke-ringed.
‘Well it’s true enough, by Mrddl,’ Jax smiled. ‘We’re graduates. Now
throw back that pack of lungbusters so I can join you in a draw or two.’
Steel complied, but did it so enthusiastically that the pack hit the wall
and instantly all the cigarettes ignited and the whole thing burst into flame. A
glass of water doused the conflagration but, while it was still fizzling fitfully,

a light flashed redly on the comscreen.
‘High priority message,’ Steel bit out, slamming down the actuator
button. Both youths snapped to rigid attention as the screen filled with the
stern visage of Colonel von Thorax.
‘M-----, L-----, to my office on the triple.’ The words fell like leaden
weights from his lips. What could it mean?
‘What can it mean?’ Jax asked as they hurtled down a dropchute at
close to the speed of gravity.
‘We’ll find out quickly enough,’ Steel ejaculated as they drew up at the
‘old man’s’ door and activated the announcer button.
Moved by some hidden mechanism the door swung wide and, not
without a certain amount of trepidation, they entered. But what was this?
This! The Colonel was looking at them and smiling, smiling, an expression
never before known to cross his iron visage at any time.
‘Make yourself comfortable, lads,’ he indicated, pointing at
comfortable chairs that rose out of the floor at the touch of a button. ‘You’ll
find gaspers in the arms of these servo-chairs, as well as Valumian wine or
Snaggian beer.’
‘No koffee?’ Jax open-mouthedly expostulated and they all laughed.
‘I don’t think you really want it,’ the Colonel susurrated coyly through
his artificial larynx. ‘Drink up lads, you’re Space Rats of the C.C.C. now and
your youth is behind you. Now, look at that.’
That was a three-dimensional image that sprang into being in the air
before them at the touch of a button, an image of a spacer like none ever
seen before. She was as slender as a swordfish, fine-wedged as a bird,
solid as a whale and as armed to the teeth as an alligator.
‘Holy Kolon,’ Steel sighed in open-mouthed awe. ‘Now that is what I
call a hunk o’ rocket!’
‘Some of us prefer to call it the Indefectible,’ the Colonel said, not
unhumorously.
‘Is that her? We heard something ...’

‘You heard very little for we have had this baby under wraps ever
since the earliest stage. She has the largest engines ever built, new
improved MacPherson’s [The MacPherson engine was first mentioned in the author’s
story, Rocket Rangers of the I.R.T. (Spicy-Weird Stories, 1923).] of the most
advanced design, Kelly Drive [Loyal readers first discovered the Kelly Drive in the
famous book Hell Hounds of the Coal Sack Cluster (Slimecreeper Press, Ltd, 1931), also
published in the German language as Teufelhund Nach der Knackwurst Express.
Translated into Italian by Re Umberto, unpublished to date.] gear that has been
improved to where you would not recognize it in a month of Thursdays - as
well as double-strength Fitzroy projectors [A media breakthrough was made when
the Fitzroy projector first appeared in Female Space Zombies of Venus in 1936 in True
Story Confessions.] that make the old ones look like a kid’s pop-gun. And I’ve
saved the best for last...’
‘Nothing can be better than what you have already told us,’ Steel
broke in.
‘That’s what you think!’ the Colonel laughed, not unkindly, with a sound
like tearing steel. ‘The best news is that Steel, you are going to be Captain
of this space-going super-dread-naught, while lucky Jax is Chief Engineer.’
‘Lucky Jax would be a lot happier if he was Captain instead of king of
the stokehold,’ he muttered and they all laughed at this joke. All except him
because it was no joke.
‘Everything is completely automated,’ the Colonel continued, ‘so it can
be flown by a crew of two. But I must warn you that it has experimental gear
aboard so whoever flies her has to volunteer...’
‘I volunteer!’ Steel shouted.
‘I have to go to the terlet,’ Jax said, rising, though he sat again
instantly when the ugly blaster leaped from its holster to the Colonel’s hand.
‘Ha-ha, just a joke, I volunteer, sure.’
‘I knew I could count on you lads. The C.C.C. breeds men. Camels
too, of course. So here is what you do. At 0304 hours tomorrow you two in
the Indefectible will crack ether headed out Cygnus way. In the direction of
a certain planet.’
‘Let me guess, if I can, that is,’ Steel said grimly through
tight-clenched teeth. ‘You don’t mean to give us a crack at the
larshnik-loaded world of Biru-2, do you?

‘I do. This is the larshnik’s prime base, the seat of operation of all
their drug and gambling traffic, where the white-slavers offload and the
queer green is printed, site of the flnnx distilleries and lair of the pirate
hordes.’
‘If you want action that sounds like it!’ Steel grimaced.
‘You are not just whistling through your back teeth,’ the Colonel
agreed. ‘If I were younger and had a few less replaceable parts this is the
kind of opportunity I would leap at...’
‘You can be Chief Engineer,’ Jax hinted.
‘Shut up,’ the Colonel implied. ‘Good luck, gentlemen, for the honour
of the C.C.C. rides with you.’
‘But not the camels?’ Steel asked.
‘Maybe next time. There are, well, adjustment problems. We have lost
four more graduates since we have been sitting here. Maybe we’ll even
change animals. Make it the C.D.C.’
‘With combat dogs?’ Jax asked.
‘Either that or donkeys. Or dugongs. But it is my worry, not yours. All
you guys have to do is get out there and crack Biru-2 wide open. I know you
can do it.’
If the stern-faced Corpsmen had any doubts they kept them to
themselves, for that is the way of the Corps. They did what had to be done
and the next morning, at exactly 0304:00 hours, the mighty bulk of the
Indefectible hurled itself into space. The roaring MacPherson engines
poured quintillions of ergs of energy into the reactor drive until they were
safely out of the gravity field of Mother Earth. Jax laboured over his
engines, shovelling the radioactive transvestite into the gaping maw of the
hungry furnace, until Steel signalled from the bridge that it was ‘changeover’
time. Then they changed over to the space-eating Kelly drive. Steel
jammed home the button that activated the drive and the great ship leaped
starward at seven times the speed of light. [When the inventor, Patsy Kelly, was
asked how ships could move at seven times the speed of light when the limiting velocity of
matter, according to Einstein, was the speed of light, he responded in his droll Goidelic way,
with a shrug, ‘Well - sure and I guess Einstein was wrong.’] Since the drive was fully
automatic Jax freshened up in the fresher while his clothes were

automatically washed in the washer, then proceeded to the bridge.
‘Really,’ Steel said, his eyebrows climbing up his forehead. ‘I didn’t
know you went in for polkadot jockstraps.’
‘It was the only thing I had clean. The washer dissolved the rest of my
clothes.’
‘Don’t worry about it. It’s the larshniks of Biru-2 who have to worry! We
hit atmosphere in exactly seventeen minutes and I have been thinking about
what to do when that happens.’
‘Well I certainly hope someone has! I haven’t had time to draw a
deep breath, much less think.’
‘Don’t worry, old pal, we are in this together. The way I figure it we
have two choices. We can blast right in, guns roaring, or we can slip in by
stealth.’
‘Oh you really have been thinking, haven’t you?’
‘I’ll ignore that because you are tired. Strong as we are, I think the
land-based batteries are stronger. So I suggest we slip in without being
noticed.’
‘Isn’t that a little hard when you are flying in a thirty-million-ton spacer?’
‘Normally, yes. But do you see this button here marked invisibility!
While you were loading the fuel they explained this to me. It is a new
invention, never used in action before, that will render us invisible and
impervious to detection by any of their detection instruments.’
‘Now that’s more like it. Fifteen minutes to go, we should be getting
mighty close. Turn on the old invisibility ray...’
‘Don’t !!’
‘Done. Now what’s your problem?’
‘Nothing really. Except the experimental invisibility device is not
expected to last more than thirteen minutes before it burns out.’
Unhappily, this proved to be the case. One hundred miles above the

barren, blasted surface of Biru-2 the good old Indefectible popped into
existence.
In the minutest fraction of a millisecond the mighty space-sonar and
superadar had locked grimly onto the invading ship while the sublights
flickered their secret signals, waiting for the correct response that would
reveal the invader as one of theirs.
‘I’ll send a signal, stall them, these larshniks aren’t too bright,’ Steel
laughed. He thumbed on the microphone, switched to the interstellar
emergency frequency, then bit out the rasping words in a sordid voice.
‘Agent X-9 to prime base. Had a firefight with the patrol, shot up my code
books, but I got all the------------s, ha-ha! Am coming home with a load of
800,000 long tons of the hellish krmml weed.’
The larshnik response was instantaneous. From the gaping, pitted
orifices of thousands of giant blaster cannon there vomited force-ravening
rays of energy that strained the very fabric of space itself. These
coruscating forces blasted into the impregnable screens of the old
Indefectible which, sadly, was destined not to get much older, and instantly
punched their way through and splashed coruscatingly from the very hull of
the ship itself. Mere matter could not stand against such forces unlocked in
the coruscating bowels of the planet itself so that the impregnable
imperialite metal walls instantly vapourized into a thin gas which was, in turn,
vapourized into the very electrons and protons (and neutrons too) of which
it was made.
Mere flesh and blood could not stand against such forces. But in the
few seconds it took the coruscating energies to eat through the force
screens, hull, vapourized gas and protons, the reckless pair of valiant
Corpsmen had hurled themselves headlong into their space armour. And
just in time! The ruin of the once great ship hit the atmosphere and seconds
later slammed into the poison soil of Biru-2.
To the casual observer it looked like the end. The once mighty queen
of the spaceways would fly no more for she now consisted of no more than
two hundred pounds of smoking junk. Nor was there any sign of life from
the tragic wreck, as was evidenced when surface crawlers erupted from a
nearby secret hatch concealed in the rock and crawled through the smoking
remains with all their detectors detecting at maximum gain. Report! the
radio signal wailed. No sign of life to fifteen decimal places! snapped back
the cursing operator of the crawlers before he signalled them to return to
base. Their metal cleats clanked viciously across the barren soil and then

they were gone. All that remained was the cooling metal wreck hissing with
despair as the poison rain poured like tears upon it.
Were these two good friends dead? I thought you would never ask.
Unbeknownst to the larshnik technicians, just one millisecond before the
wreck struck down, two massive and almost indestructible suits of space
armour had been ejected by coiled steelite springs, sent flying to the very
horizon where they landed behind a concealing spine of rock, which, just
by chance was the spine of rock into which the secret hatch had been built
that concealed the crawlway from which the surface crawlers with their
detectors emerged for their fruitless search, to which they returned under
control of their cursing operator who, stoned again with hellish krmml weed,
never noticed the quick flick of the detector needles as the crawlers
reentered the tunnel this time bearing on their return journey a cargo they
had not exited with as the great door slammed shut behind them.
‘We’ve done it! We’re inside their defences!’ Steel rejoiced. ‘And no
thanks to you, pushing that Mrddl-cursed invisibility button.’
‘Well, how was I to know?’ Jax grated. ‘Anyways, we don’t have a ship
anymore but we do have the element of surprise. They don’t know that we
are here, but we know they are here!’
‘Good thinking... hssst!’ he hissed. ‘Stay low, we’re coming to
something.’
The clanking crawlers rattled into the immense chamber cut into the
living stone and now filled with deadly war machines of all descriptions. The
only human there, if he could be called human, was the larshnik operator
whose soiled fingertips sprang to the gun controls the instant he spotted
the intruders, but he never stood a chance. Precisely-aimed rays from two
blasters zeroed in on him and in a millisecond he was no more than a
charred fragment of smoking flesh in the chair. Corps justice was striking at
last to the larshnik lair.
Justice it was, impersonal and final, impartial and murderous, for there
were no ‘innocents’ in this lair of evil. Ravening forces of civilized
vengeance struck down all that crossed their path as the two chums rode a
death-dealing combat gun through the corridors of infamy.
‘This is the big one,’ Steel grimaced as they came to an immense
door of gold-plated impervialite before which a suicide squad committed
suicide under the relentless scourge of fire. There was more feeble

resistance, smokily, coruscatingly and noisily exterminated, before this last
barrier went down and they rode in triumph into the central control now
manned by a single figure at the main panel, Superlarsh himself, secret
head of the empire of interstellar crime.
‘You have met your destiny,’ Steel intoned grimly, his weapon fixed
unmovingly upon the black-robed figure in the opaque space helmet. ‘Take
off that helmet or you die upon the instant.’
His only reply was a slobbered growl of inchoate rage and for a long
instant the black-gloved hands trembled over the gun controls. Then, ever
so slowly, these same hands raised themselves to clutch at the helmet, to
turn it, to lift it slowly off...
‘By the sacred name of the Prophet Mrddl!’ the two Corps-men
gasped in unison, struck speechless by what they saw.
‘Yes, so now you know,’ grated Superlarsh through angry teeth. ‘But,
ha-ha, I’ll bet you never suspected.’
‘You!!’ Steel insuflated, breaking the frozen silence. ‘You! You!!
YOU!!!’
‘Yes, me, I, Colonel von Thorax, Commandant of the C.C.C. You
never suspected me and, ohh, how I laughed at you all of the time.’
‘But...’ Jax stammered. ‘Why?’
‘Why? The answer is obvious to any but democratic interstellar swine
like you. The only thing the larshniks of the galaxy had to fear was
something like the C.C.C, a powerful force impervious to outside bribery or
sedition, noble in the cause of righteousness. You could have caused us
trouble. Therefore we founded the C.C.C. and I have long been head of
both organizations. Our recruiters bring in the best that the civilized planets
can offer and I see to it that most of them are brutalized, morale destroyed,
bodies wasted and spirits crushed so they are no longer a danger. Of
course a few always make it through the course no matter how disgusting I
make it, every generation has its share of super-masochists, but I see that
these are taken care of pretty quickly.’
‘Like being sent on suicide missions?’ Steel asked ironly.
‘That’s a good way.’

‘Like the one we were sent on - but it didn’t work! Say your prayers,
you filthy larshnik, for you are about to meet your maker!’
‘Maker? Prayers? Are you out of your skull? All larshniks are atheists
to the end...’
And then it was the end, in a coruscating puff of vapour, dead with
those vile words upon his lips, no less than he deserved.
‘Now what?’ Steel asked.
‘This,’ Jax responded, shooting the gun from his hand and
imprisoning him instantly with an unbreakable paralysis ray. ‘No more
second best for me, in the engine room with you on the bridge. This is my
ball game from here on in.’
‘Are you mad?’ Steel fluttered through paralysed lips.
‘Sane for the first time in my life. The superlarsh is dead, long live the
new superlarsh. It’s mine, the whole galaxy, mine.’
‘And what about me?’
‘I should kill you, but that would be too easy. And you did share your
chocolate bars with me. You will be blamed for this entire debacle, for the
death of Colonel von Thorax and for the disaster here at larshnik prime
base. Every man’s hand will be against you and you will be an outcast and
will flee for your life to the farflung outposts of the galaxy where you will live
in terror.’
‘Remember the chocolate bars!’
‘I do. All I ever got were the stale ones. Now ... GO!’
* * * *
You want to know my name? Old Sarge is good enough. My story? Too
much for your tender ears, boyo. Just top up the glasses, that’s the way,
and join me in a toast. At least that much for a poor old man who has seen
much in this long lifetime. A toast of bad luck, bad cess I say, may Great
Kramddl curse forever the man some know as Gentleman Jax. What,
hungry?, not me - no - NO! Not a chocolate bar!!!!!